Jumping through the hoops: SSH jump host functionality in Orchard (#844)
cirruslabs/tart: docs/blog/posts/2024-06-20-jumping-through-the-hoops.md

---
draft: false
date: 2024-06-20
search:
  exclude: true
authors:
  - edigaryev
categories:
  - orchard
---

# Jumping through the hoops: SSH jump host functionality in Orchard

> Almost a year ago, when we started building [Orchard](https://github.com/cirruslabs/orchard), an orchestration system for Tart, we quickly realized that most worker machines will be in a private network, and that VMs will be only reachable from the worker machines themselves. Thus, one of our goals became to simplify accessing the workers and the VMs in a cluster through a centralized controller host.

Author: @fkorotkov what do you think?

To avoid tautology:

```suggestion
Almost a year ago, when we started building [Orchard](https://github.com/cirruslabs/orchard), an orchestration system for Tart, we quickly realized that most worker machines will be in a private network, and that VMs will be only reachable from the worker machines themselves. Thus, one of our goals became to simplify accessing the compute resources in a cluster through a centralized controller host.
```
